# SQL Learning & Tools

Tools

    https://sqlizer.io/


Write a query for these statements?

    How many customers purchased two songs at 99 cents each?
    How many invoices exist between $1.98 and $5?
    How many invoices do we have that are exactly $1.98 or $3.96?
    How many invoices were billed to the city of Brussels?
    How many invoices were billed to Brussels, Orlando, or Paris?
    How many invoices were billed in the cities that start with B?
    How many invoices were billed in cities that have a B anywhere in its name?
    How many invoices were billed on May 22, 2010?
    Get a list of all invoices that were billed after May 22nd, 2010 and have a total of less than $3?
    Get all invoices whose billing city starts with P or the billing city starts with D?
    Get a list of all invoices that are greater than $1.98 from any cities whose names start with P or D?
    Categories:

    - a baseline purchase, between 99 cent and 1.99,
    - a low purchase falls between $2 and 6.99,
    - the target purchase, between $7 and $15,
    - a top performer above $15

        Which cities do their top-performing sales come from?
    Get a full list of customer names, first and last names, next to all the invoices generated by that customer?
    Find customers that have not generated any invoices or have no orders yet?
    Find those invoices that customers are deactivated?
    Find employees that are responsible for the 10 highest individual sales to reward the employees?
    How many customers do we have whose last name starts with S?
    Calculate the age of each employee?
    Get a list of the average amount customers spend by billing City?
    Get a list of the total spend by each customer?
    What's an average invoice totals by city for only the cities that start with L?
    Find all average totals that are greater than $6?
    Find all average totals that are greater than $6 and only for cities starting with 'b'?
    What are the average invoice totals by billing country and city?
    How is each city performing against global average sales?
        Global Average Sales Amount
        Average Sales per City
    Give us all the invoices that have occurred after this particular date?
    Find which tracks are not selling?
    Generate a report of all albums, their associated tracks, and the artists who sang them?

    Subquery
        Correlated - the outer query and inner subquery are interdependent at each other

        select First_Name, Last_Name, email, Phone_Number, state
        from ConventionAttendees ca
        where not exists (
        select custstate
            from OnlineRetailSales ors
            where ors.CustState = ca.state
        )
        ;

        Uncorrelated (nested subquery) - the outer query and inner subquery are independent at each other

        select *,
        (
        select round(avg(OrderTotal), 2)
        from OnlineRetailSales
        )
        from OnlineRetailSales
        ;


    By definition, a scalar subquery is one whose result set returns a value consisting of one row and one column.


Ref:
https://github.com/LinkedInLearning/top-5-things-to-know-in-advanced-sql-4403486
